n23443 notes (#427)
bitcoin-core-review-club/website: _posts/2021-12-08-#23443.md

_Notes and questions to follow soon!_

## Notes

* Erlay is a new transaction relay protocol which is supposed to reduce the bandwidth nodes use to
  announce transactions.

  - We looked at Erlay at the review club [previously](https://bitcoincore.reviews/18261).

>   - Now, we will review a particular subset of Erlay commits to be merged first.

Reviewer: Assuming this line can be removed, since it has its own bullet point

    keep track of ongoing reconciliations with a particular peer.

  - If the peer is disconnected, the corresponding reconciliation state should be cleared.

* We moved forward with this PR once [minisketch](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/minisketch/) was
  merged, although minisketch is not required for this particular Erlay sub-PR. Another dependency
  was [WTXID PR](https://bitcoincore.reviews/18044).

## Questions

1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)?
-->

2. What are the benefits to splitting PRs into smaller parts? Are there any drawbacks to this
   approach? What's different about treating sub-PRs?

3. When are the nodes supposed to announce Erlay support? What they should consider before doing
   so and in which cases it's clearly meaningless?

4. What is the overall handshake and "registration for reconciliation" protocol flow?

5. Why Erlay protocol version feature is useful? Under which conditions it should be bumped?

6. What is the reason for generating reconciliation salt (`m_local_salts`)? How is it generated
   and why?

> 7. Why does it make sense in some cases to disconnect a protocol violating peer rather than
>    just ignoring the message?

Reviewer: I recommend prompting the attendees to look into the code. Giving them a specific number of things to search for also helps.
```suggestion
7. This PR adds 4 new conditions under which nodes will disconnect a peer. What are they?
When does it make sense to disconnect a peer rather than just ignore the message?
```

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion, if you have time: a few implementation-related questions may encourage attendees to dig more thoroughly into the PR code. For example, "what does `TxReconciliationTracker::Impl::m_mutex` guard and when does the lock need to be held?" or "why might we use a [`std::unordered_map`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/unordered_map) instead of a [`std::map`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/map) to track salts and states?"

Author: I couldn't think of better questions :)
